a tiny island lost in the midst of the
Pacific it's the tip of a huge mountain
that rises precipitously from the
seafloor thousands of meters below the
nearest land is 300 miles away
isolated seamounts like this one create
a a seas where life can flourish in the
comparatively empty expanses of the open
ocean
but all the creatures that swim beside
it would not be here were it not for one
key factor the deep ocean currents
far below the surface they collide with
the islands flanks and are deflected
upwards bringing with them from the
depths a rich soup of nutrients
such upwellings attract great
concentrations of life
most of the fish here are permanent
residents feeding on the plankton a tiny
floating plants and animals that are now
Nishtha richness brought up from the
depth and they in turn attract visitors
from the open ocean
tuna
the plankton feeders are easy targets
all this action attracts even larger
predators
sharks hundreds of sharks these silky
sharks are normally ocean-going species
but the sea mounts in the eastern
Pacific like Coco small pelo and the
Galapagos attract silk is in huge groups
up to 500 strong
Silke it seemed to specialize in taking
injured fish and constantly circle sea
mounts on the lookout for the chance to
do so
but silk is are not the only visitors
hammerheads gather in some of the
largest shark shows to be found anywhere
in the ocean sometimes thousands will
circle over a single sea mount
but these sharks are not here for food
they have come for another reason
some of the locals provide a cleaning
service
following the last aisle in your year
when a rise in water temperatures caused
many sharks to suffer from fungal
infections the number of hammerheads
visiting the sea mounts reached record
levels